first pass operations doc (#2595)
solo-io/gloo: docs/content/operations/production_deployment/_index.md

---
title: Production Deployments
description: This document shows some tips and tricks for deploying Gloo into a production environment
weight: 20
---

This document shows some of the Production options that may be useful. We will continue to add to this document and welcome users of Gloo to send PRs to this as well.

## Dropping capabilities

One of the more important (and unique things about Gloo) is the ability to significantly lock down the edge proxy. Other proxies require privileges to write to disk or access the Kubernetes API, while Gloo splits those responsibilities between control plane and data plane. The data plane can be locked down with zero privileges while separating out the need to secure the control plane differently. 

> For example, Gloo's data plane (the `gateway-proxy` pod) has ReadOnly file system. Additionally it doesn't require any additional tokens mounted in or OS-level privileges. By default some of these options are enabled to simplify developer experience, but if your usecase doesn't need them, you should lock them down. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, Gloo's data plane (the `gateway-proxy` pod) has ReadOnly file system. Additionally it doesn't require any additional tokens mounted in or OS-level privileges. By default some of these options are enabled to simplify developer experience, but if your use case doesn't need them, you should lock them down. 
```
